[OSP] Add BYO external load balancer and DNS module (#28275)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-osp-configuring-external-load-balancer.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// TODO
// * networking/TBD
// * networking/load-balancing-openstack.adoc
// For thinking and reviewing, adding to networking/load-balancing-openstack.adoc

[id="nw-osp-configuring-external-load-balancer_{context}"]
= Configuring an external load balancer

You can configure a {product-title} cluster on {rh-openstack-first} to use an external load balancer in place of the default load balancer.

// Maybe an About mod in support

.Prerequisites

* On your load balancer, TCP over ports 6443, 443, and 80 must be available to any users of your system.

> ** The {product-title} API uses port 6443. 

Author: ```suggestion
* Load balance the API port, 6443, between each of the control plane nodes.
```

Reviewer: perfect

> ** Cluster applications use ports 443 and 80.

Author: ```suggestion
* Load balance the application ports, 443 and 80, between all of the compute nodes.
```

Reviewer: also perfect

* On your load balancer, port 22623, which is used to serve ignition start-up configurations to nodes, is not exposed outside of the cluster.

* Your load balancer must be able to access every machine in your cluster. Methods to allow this access include:

> ** Creating the load balancer on a subnet that is in the cluster's network, and then attaching a router interface to the subnet from an `OpenShift-external-router` object.

Author: @iamemilio 

```suggestion
** Creating the load balancer on a subnet that is in the cluster's network, and then attaching the load balancer to the machines subnet.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Attaching the load balancer to the cluster's machine subnet.
```
In my opinion, this would be clearer

Reviewer: you can create the node anywhere, as long as you attach it to the machine subnet. That is the important part, so I think its the only thing we should suggest.

Author: Groovy. :+1:

listenmy-cluster-apps-80
        bind 0.0.0.0:80
        mode tcp
        balance roundrobin
        server my-cluster-worker-0 192.0.2.7:80 check
        server my-cluster-worker-1 192.0.2.9:80 check
        server my-cluster-worker-2 192.0.2.8:80 check
----

. Add records to your DNS server for the cluster API and apps over the load balancer. For example:
+
[source,dns]
----
<load_balancer_ip_address> api.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>
<load_balancer_ip_address> apps.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>
----

. From a command line, use `curl` to verify that the external load balancer and DNS configuration are operational. 

.. Verify that the cluster API is accessible:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ curl https://<loadbalancer_ip_address>:6443/version --insecure
----
+
If the configuration is correct, you receive a JSON object in response:
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "major": "1",
  "minor": "11+",
  "gitVersion": "v1.11.0+ad103ed",
  "gitCommit": "ad103ed",
  "gitTreeState": "clean",
  "buildDate": "2019-01-09T06:44:10Z",
  "goVersion": "go1.10.3",
  "compiler": "gc",
  "platform": "linux/amd64"
}
----

.. Verify that cluster applications are accessible:
+
[NOTE]
====

> You can also verify application accessibility by opening the {product-title} Console in a web browser.

Reviewer 2: s/Console/console (or web console)

Author: ```suggestion
You can also verify application accessibility by opening the {product-title} console in a web browser.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// TODO
// * networking/TBD
// * networking/load-balancing-openstack.adoc
// For thinking and reviewing, adding to networking/load-balancing-openstack.adoc

[id="nw-osp-configuring-external-load-balancer_{context}"]
= Configuring an external load balancer

You can configure a {product-title} cluster on {rh-openstack-first} to use an external load balancer in place of the default load balancer.

// Maybe an About mod in support

.Prerequisites

* On your load balancer, TCP over ports 6443, 443, and 80 must be available to any users of your system.

> ** The {product-title} API uses port 6443. 

Reviewer: We can be a little more specific. I think something like this could be a good compromise:
Load balance the api port, 6443, between each of the control plane nodes. Load balance the application ports, 443 and 80, between all of the compute nodes.

Author: L16 is not what I thought I committed, so this all reads a bit strangely. 😬 I think I deleted the good line of text and left the old one. Whoops. 

Happy with your suggestion as 18-20, though, if that seems copacetic to you.

** Cluster applications use ports 443 and 80.

* On your load balancer, port 22623, which is used to serve ignition start-up configurations to nodes, is not exposed outside of the cluster.

* Your load balancer must be able to access every machine in your cluster. Methods to allow this access include:

> ** Creating the load balancer on a subnet that is in the cluster's network, and then attaching a router interface to the subnet from an `OpenShift-external-router` object.

Reviewer: Would this be clearer for this case: "Attaching the load balancer to the machines subnet" ?

Author: Sure.
